add stakeholder need (#1243)
spdx/spdx-3-model: model/FunctionalSafety/Classes/Need.md

SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Need

## Summary

A Need is condition, objective or capability desired by a Role.

## Description

> A Need represents the high-level intent expressed by Role during the Needs Analysis phase of the life cycle. It defines the problem space or desired capability before it is translated into verifiable system requirements.

Reviewer: I would not call it "Need Analysis Phase". There is no specific need analysis phase, this kind of analysis happens whenever one want to specify the requirements to a component. E.g. if your system consists of a microconcoller (that already comes with its abstraction layer etc.) and you have the application software, you still want an RTOS. Here you take what you need to integrate your uC, its abstraction and your application software together - so you specify the needs you have on an RTOS. This usually happens when you specify your system/software architecture. But for sure there are other architectural or design phases in your system (or service) where you specify what you need.

> This entity captures the natural language expression of the Need via the statement property, ensuring the Role's voice is preserved in the model. Role Needs are distinct from System Requirements; while requirements must be technically verifiable, needs express the underlying value or necessity that justifies the system's existence. Traceability from derived requirements back to Needs is essential to ensure alignment with stakeholder expectations with the RelationshipType 'satisfies'.

Reviewer: Needs also must be verifiable, otherwise you will get into contractual issues. A tier 1 supplier has to prove that they met all the needs the OEM has specified for them to implement.

SPDX-License-Identifier: Community-Spec-1.0

# Need

## Summary

> A Need is condition, objective or capability desired by an Agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Need is condition, objective or capability desired by a Role.
```

## Description

> A Need represents the high-level intent expressed by Agent during the Needs Analysis phase of the life cycle. It defines the problem space or desired capability before it is translated into verifiable system requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Need represents the high-level intent of a Role during the Needs Analysis phase of the life cycle. It defines the problem space or desired capability before it is translated into verifiable system requirements.
```

> This entity captures the natural language expression of the need via the statement property, ensuring the Agent's voice is preserved in the model. The AgentPriority property allows for the ranking of needs, which is critical for scope management, trade-off analysis, and requirement prioritization. Agent Needs are distinct from System Requirements; while requirements must be technically verifiable, needs express the underlying value or necessity that justifies the system's existence. Traceability from derived requirements back to Needs is essential to ensure alignment with stakeholder expectations with the RelationshipType 'satisfies'.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This entity captures the natural language expression of the Need via the statement property, ensuring the Agent's voice is preserved in the model. The AgentPriority property allows for the ranking of needs, which is critical for scope management, trade-off analysis, and requirement prioritization. Agent Needs are distinct from System Requirements; while requirements must be technically verifiable, needs express the underlying value or necessity that justifies the system's existence. Traceability from derived requirements back to Needs is essential to ensure alignment with stakeholder expectations with the RelationshipType 'satisfies'.
```

Not sure.

Author: fixed removed unneeded text and made change.

> This entity captures the natural language expression of the need via the statement property, ensuring the Agent's voice is preserved in the model. The AgentPriority property allows for the ranking of needs, which is critical for scope management, trade-off analysis, and requirement prioritization. Agent Needs are distinct from System Requirements; while requirements must be technically verifiable, needs express the underlying value or necessity that justifies the system's existence. Traceability from derived requirements back to Needs is essential to ensure alignment with stakeholder expectations with the RelationshipType 'satisfies'.

Reviewer 2: - See suggestion.
- In addition, it is not clear to me what replaces `AgentPriority` here. The ability to prioritize is a **qualification** of the Agent in order to **fulfill** the role.
- I changed `stakeholder` to `role` in the last sentence, to be more clear about the subject of the sentence. A `stakeholder` is (arguably) one of the qualification criteria expected of an agent to fulfill a particular role, so I think it is more correct to refer to the role directly rather than speak indirectly.

```suggestion
This entity captures the natural language expression of the need via the statement property, ensuring the Role's voice is preserved in the model. The AgentPriority property allows for the ranking of needs, which is critical for scope management, trade-off analysis, and requirement prioritization. RoleNeeds are distinct from System Requirements; while requirements must be technically verifiable, needs express the underlying value or necessity that justifies the system's existence and are **validated** by the Agent that is qualified to fulfill the Role. Traceability from derived requirements back to Needs is essential to ensure alignment with role expectations with the RelationshipType 'satisfies'.
```

## Metadata

- name: Need
- SubclassOf: /Core/Element
- Instantiability: Concrete

## Properties

- statement
  - type: xsd:string
  - minCount: 1

> - agentPriority

Author: ```suggestion
- priority
```

> - agentPriority

Reviewer 2: I am not sure what to do here, but I am pretty certain `agentPriority` is the wrong property name.
